.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2023, NVIDIA CORPORATION
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MLNXOFEDCTL 8 "2023-01-23"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mlnxofedctl \- load and unload mlnx-ofed kernel modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mlnxofedctl
.RI [ -a | --altmods ] <command>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mlnxofedctl
is basically a wrapper around /etc/init.d/openibd or /etc/init.d/mlnx_en.d
(in mlnx_en). That "init.d" script is being used as a script and should not.

Currently it supports all the commands supported by openibd, but may grow
some extra functionality in the future.

.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a \-\-altmods
Load modules from \fI/host/lib/modules\fP instead of from
\fI/lib/modules\fP . Runs the whole command in a separate mounts namespace.

.SS Supported commands
.TP
.B start
Load modules. In some cases it calls 'restart' on its own because it senses
that a wrong version of the modules is loaded.

.TP
.B force\-start
The start operation also checks that the modules are ones that are provided
in the mlnx-ofed-kernel / mlnx-ofa_kernel / mlnx_en modules package (rpm or
deb). If not, it will refuse to load modules to make sure that inbox modules
will not be used.

force\-start ignores this sanity check and allows using modules that were not
part of the MLNX_OFED / mlnx-en packages. This is also useful if you want to
use kernel modules you built manually.

.TP
.B stop
Unload modules. Note that this unloads not only current modules but also
various modules that were previously part of mlnx-ofa_kernel (such as
mlnx4_core and rdma_rxe) to simplify upgrades.

.TP
.B restart
stop and start.

.TP
.B force\-stop, force\-restart
\fIforce-stop\fP is the same as \fIstop\fP.

\fIforce\-restart\fP is \fIstop\fP and \fIforce\-start\fP.

.TP
.B status
Shows that the modules are loaded. This is handy because there's no real
process whose presence can provide the "state" for systemd. Generally it
is a good idea to use 'restart' in many cases.

.SH SEE ALSO
There should be some other documentation.
